docs/supported-tech.asciidoc, before:

[[supported-tech]]
== Supported Technologies

This page describes the technologies supported by the Elastic APM Go agent.

If your favorite technology is not supported yet, you can vote for it by
participating in our https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScbW7D8m-otPO7cxqeg7XstWR8vMnxG6brnXLs_TFVSTHuHvg/viewform?usp=sf_link[survey], or joining the conversation in the https://discuss.elastic.co/c/apm[Discuss forum].
We will use the results of the survey and Discuss topics to add support
for the most requested technologies.

If you would like to get more involved, take a look at the <<contributing, contributing guide>>.

[float]
[[supported-tech-go]]
=== Go

The Elastic APM Go agent naturally requires Go. We will support, at a minimum,
the last two major Go releases as described by
https://golang.org/doc/devel/release.html#policy[Go's Release Policy]. Older
versions of Go will be supported on a best-effort basis.

We currently test the agent with all major versions of Go since 1.8. Some
integration modules may require a more recent version of Go due to third-party
dependencies.

[float]
[[supported-tech-web-frameworks]]
=== Web Frameworks

We support several third-party web frameworks, as well as Go's standard `net/http`
package. Regardless of the framework, we create a transaction for each incoming
request, and name the transaction after the registered route.

[float]
==== fasthttp

We support https://github.com/valyala/fasthttp[valyala/fasthttp],
https://github.com/valyala/fasthttp/releases/tag/v1.26.0[v1.26.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmfasthttp, module/apmfasthttp>> for more information
about fasthttp instrumentation.

[float]
==== httprouter

https://github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter[julienschmidt/httprouter] does
not use semantic versioning, but its API is relatively stable. Any recent
version should be compatible with the Elastic APM Go agent.

See <<builtin-modules-apmhttprouter, module/apmhttprouter>> for more
information about httprouter instrumentation.

[float]
==== Echo

We support the https://echo.labstack.com/[Echo] web framework,
https://github.com/labstack/echo/releases/tag/3.3.5[v3.3.5] and greater.

We provide different packages for the Echo v3 and v4 versions:
`module/apmecho` for Echo v3.x, and `module/apmechov4` for Echo v4.x.

See <<builtin-modules-apmecho, module/apmecho>> for more information
about Echo instrumentation.

[float]
==== Gin

We support the https://gin-gonic.com/[Gin] web framework,
https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin/releases/tag/v1.2[v1.2] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgin, module/apmgin>> for more information
about Gin instrumentation.

[float]
==== Beego

We support the https://beego.me/[Beego] web framework,
https://github.com/astaxie/beego/releases/tag/v1.10.0[v1.10.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmbeego, module/apmbeego>> for more information
about Beego instrumentation.

[float]
==== gorilla/mux

We support http://www.gorillatoolkit.org/pkg/mux[gorilla/mux]
https://github.com/gorilla/mux/releases/tag/v1.6.1[v1.6.1] and greater.
Older versions are not supported due to the use of gorilla.Middleware.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgorilla, module/apmgorilla>> for more information
about gorilla/mux instrumentation.

[float]
==== go-restful

We support https://github.com/emicklei/go-restful[go-restful],
https://github.com/emicklei/go-restful/releases/tag/2.0.0[2.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmrestful, module/apmrestful>> for more information
about go-restful instrumentation.

[float]
==== chi

We support https://github.com/go-chi/chi[chi],
https://github.com/go-chi/chi/releases/tag/v4.0.0[v4.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmchi, module/apmchi>> for more information
about chi instrumentation.

[float]
==== negroni

We support https://github.com/urfave/negroni[negroni],
https://github.com/urfave/negroni/releases/tag/v1.0.0[v1.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmnegroni, module/apmnegroni>> for more information
about negroni instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-databases]]
=== Databases

[float]
==== database/sql

We support tracing requests with any `database/sql` driver, provided
the driver is registered with the Elastic APM Go agent. Spans will be
created for each statemented executed.

When using one of the following drivers, the Elastic APM Go agent will
be able to parse the datasource name, and provide more context in the
spans it emits:

- https://github.com/lib/pq[lib/pq] (PostgreSQL)
- https://github.com/jackc/pgx[jackc/pgx] (PostgreSQL)
- https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql[go-sql-driver/mysql]
- https://github.com/go-sqlite3[mattn/go-sqlite3]

See <<builtin-modules-apmsql, module/apmsql>> for more information
about database/sql instrumentation.

[float]
==== GORM

We support the http://gorm.io/[GORM] object-relational mapping library,
https://github.com/jinzhu/gorm/releases/tag/v1.9[v1.9] and greater.
Spans will be created for each create, query, update, and delete
operation.

As with `database/sql` support we provide additional support for the
postgres, mysql, and sqlite dialects.

We provide different packages for the Gorm v1 and v2 versions:
`module/apmgorm` for Gorm v1.x, and `module/apmgormv2` for Gorm v2.x.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgorm, module/apmgorm>> or <<builtin-modules-apmgorm, module/apmgormv2>> for more information
about GORM instrumentation.

[float]
==== go-pg/pg

We support the https://github.com/go-pg/pg[go-pg/pg] PostgreSQL ORM,
https://github.com/go-pg/pg/releases/tag/v8.0.4[v8.0.4]. Spans will
be created for each database operation.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgopg, module/apmgopg>> for more information
about go-pg instrumentation.

[float]
==== Cassandra (gocql)

https://gocql.github.io/[GoCQL] does not have a stable API, so we will
provide support for the most recent API, and older versions of the API
on a best-effort basis. Spans will be created for each query. When the
batch API is used, a span will be created for the batch, and a sub-span
is created for each query in the batch.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgocql, module/apmgocql>> for more information
about GoCQL instrumentation.

[float]
==== Redis (gomodule/redigo)

We support https://github.com/gomodule/redigo[Redigo],
https://github.com/gomodule/redigo/tree/v2.0.0[v2.0.0] and greater.
We provide helper functions for reporting Redis commands as spans.

See <<builtin-modules-apmredigo, module/apmredigo>> for more information
about Redigo instrumentation.

[float]
==== Redis (go-redis/redis)

We support https://github.com/go-redis/redis[go-redis],
https://github.com/go-redis/redis/tree/v6.15.3[v6.15.3].
We provide helper functions for reporting Redis commands as spans.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgoredis, module/apmgoredis>> for more information
about go-redis instrumentation.

[float]
==== Elasticsearch

We provide instrumentation for Elasticsearch clients. This is usable with
the https://github.com/elastic/go-elasticsearch[go-elasticsearch] and
https://github.com/olivere/elastic[olivere/elastic] clients, and should
also be usable with any other clients that provide a means of configuring
the underlying `net/http.RoundTripper`.

See <<builtin-modules-apmelasticsearch, module/apmelasticsearch>> for more
information about Elasticsearch client instrumentation.

[float]
==== MongoDB

We provide instrumentation for the official
https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver[MongoDB Go Driver],
https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/releases/tag/v1.0.0[v1.0.0] and
greater. Spans will be created for each MongoDB command executed within a
context containing a transaction.

See <<builtin-modules-apmmongo, module/apmmongo>> for more information about
the MongoDB Go Driver instrumentation.

[float]
==== DynamoDB

We provide instrumentation for AWS DynamoDB. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-rpc]]
=== RPC Frameworks

[float]
==== gRPC

We support https://grpc.io/[gRPC]
https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go/releases/tag/v1.3.0[v1.3.0] and greater.
We provide unary and stream interceptors for both the client and server.
The server interceptor will create a transaction for each incoming request,
and the client interceptor will create a span for each outgoing request.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgrpc, module/apmgrpc>> for more information
about gRPC instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-services]]
=== Service Frameworks

[float]
==== Go kit

We support tracing https://gokit.io/[Go kit] clients and servers when
using the gRPC or HTTP transport, by way of <<builtin-modules-apmgrpc, module/apmgrpc>>
and <<builtin-modules-apmhttp, module/apmhttp>> respectively.

Code examples are available at https://godoc.org/go.elastic.co/apm/module/apmgokit
for getting started.

[float]
[[supported-tech-logging]]
=== Logging frameworks

[float]
==== Logrus

We support log correlation and exception tracking with
https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus/[Logrus],
https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus/releases/tag/v1.1.0[v1.1.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmlogrus, module/apmlogrus>> for more information
about Logrus integration.

[float]
==== Zap

We support log correlation and exception tracking with
https://github.com/uber-go/zap/[Zap],
https://github.com/uber-go/zap/releases/tag/v1.0.0[v1.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmzap, module/apmzap>> for more information
about Zap integration.

[float]
==== Zerolog

We support log correlation and exception tracking with
https://github.com/rs/zerolog/[Zerolog],
https://github.com/rs/zerolog/releases/tag/v1.12.0[v1.12.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmzerolog, module/apmzerolog>> for more information
about Zerolog integration.

[float]
[[supported-tech-object-storage]]
=== Object Storage

[float]
==== Amazon S3
We provide instrumentation for AWS S3. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-messaging-systems]]
=== Messaging Systems

[float]
==== Amazon SQS
We provide instrumentation for AWS SQS. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
==== Amazon SNS
We provide instrumentation for AWS SNS. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

Commit message:

add azure blob storage instrumentation

docs/supported-tech.asciidoc, after:

[[supported-tech]]
== Supported Technologies

This page describes the technologies supported by the Elastic APM Go agent.

If your favorite technology is not supported yet, you can vote for it by
participating in our https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScbW7D8m-otPO7cxqeg7XstWR8vMnxG6brnXLs_TFVSTHuHvg/viewform?usp=sf_link[survey], or joining the conversation in the https://discuss.elastic.co/c/apm[Discuss forum].
We will use the results of the survey and Discuss topics to add support
for the most requested technologies.

If you would like to get more involved, take a look at the <<contributing, contributing guide>>.

[float]
[[supported-tech-go]]
=== Go

The Elastic APM Go agent naturally requires Go. We will support, at a minimum,
the last two major Go releases as described by
https://golang.org/doc/devel/release.html#policy[Go's Release Policy]. Older
versions of Go will be supported on a best-effort basis.

We currently test the agent with all major versions of Go since 1.8. Some
integration modules may require a more recent version of Go due to third-party
dependencies.

[float]
[[supported-tech-web-frameworks]]
=== Web Frameworks

We support several third-party web frameworks, as well as Go's standard `net/http`
package. Regardless of the framework, we create a transaction for each incoming
request, and name the transaction after the registered route.

[float]
==== fasthttp

We support https://github.com/valyala/fasthttp[valyala/fasthttp],
https://github.com/valyala/fasthttp/releases/tag/v1.26.0[v1.26.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmfasthttp, module/apmfasthttp>> for more information
about fasthttp instrumentation.

[float]
==== httprouter

https://github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter[julienschmidt/httprouter] does
not use semantic versioning, but its API is relatively stable. Any recent
version should be compatible with the Elastic APM Go agent.

See <<builtin-modules-apmhttprouter, module/apmhttprouter>> for more
information about httprouter instrumentation.

[float]
==== Echo

We support the https://echo.labstack.com/[Echo] web framework,
https://github.com/labstack/echo/releases/tag/3.3.5[v3.3.5] and greater.

We provide different packages for the Echo v3 and v4 versions:
`module/apmecho` for Echo v3.x, and `module/apmechov4` for Echo v4.x.

See <<builtin-modules-apmecho, module/apmecho>> for more information
about Echo instrumentation.

[float]
==== Gin

We support the https://gin-gonic.com/[Gin] web framework,
https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin/releases/tag/v1.2[v1.2] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgin, module/apmgin>> for more information
about Gin instrumentation.

[float]
==== Beego

We support the https://beego.me/[Beego] web framework,
https://github.com/astaxie/beego/releases/tag/v1.10.0[v1.10.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmbeego, module/apmbeego>> for more information
about Beego instrumentation.

[float]
==== gorilla/mux

We support http://www.gorillatoolkit.org/pkg/mux[gorilla/mux]
https://github.com/gorilla/mux/releases/tag/v1.6.1[v1.6.1] and greater.
Older versions are not supported due to the use of gorilla.Middleware.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgorilla, module/apmgorilla>> for more information
about gorilla/mux instrumentation.

[float]
==== go-restful

We support https://github.com/emicklei/go-restful[go-restful],
https://github.com/emicklei/go-restful/releases/tag/2.0.0[2.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmrestful, module/apmrestful>> for more information
about go-restful instrumentation.

[float]
==== chi

We support https://github.com/go-chi/chi[chi],
https://github.com/go-chi/chi/releases/tag/v4.0.0[v4.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmchi, module/apmchi>> for more information
about chi instrumentation.

[float]
==== negroni

We support https://github.com/urfave/negroni[negroni],
https://github.com/urfave/negroni/releases/tag/v1.0.0[v1.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmnegroni, module/apmnegroni>> for more information
about negroni instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-databases]]
=== Databases

[float]
==== database/sql

We support tracing requests with any `database/sql` driver, provided
the driver is registered with the Elastic APM Go agent. Spans will be
created for each statemented executed.

When using one of the following drivers, the Elastic APM Go agent will
be able to parse the datasource name, and provide more context in the
spans it emits:

- https://github.com/lib/pq[lib/pq] (PostgreSQL)
- https://github.com/jackc/pgx[jackc/pgx] (PostgreSQL)
- https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql[go-sql-driver/mysql]
- https://github.com/go-sqlite3[mattn/go-sqlite3]

See <<builtin-modules-apmsql, module/apmsql>> for more information
about database/sql instrumentation.

[float]
==== GORM

We support the http://gorm.io/[GORM] object-relational mapping library,
https://github.com/jinzhu/gorm/releases/tag/v1.9[v1.9] and greater.
Spans will be created for each create, query, update, and delete
operation.

As with `database/sql` support we provide additional support for the
postgres, mysql, and sqlite dialects.

We provide different packages for the Gorm v1 and v2 versions:
`module/apmgorm` for Gorm v1.x, and `module/apmgormv2` for Gorm v2.x.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgorm, module/apmgorm>> or <<builtin-modules-apmgorm, module/apmgormv2>> for more information
about GORM instrumentation.

[float]
==== go-pg/pg

We support the https://github.com/go-pg/pg[go-pg/pg] PostgreSQL ORM,
https://github.com/go-pg/pg/releases/tag/v8.0.4[v8.0.4]. Spans will
be created for each database operation.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgopg, module/apmgopg>> for more information
about go-pg instrumentation.

[float]
==== Cassandra (gocql)

https://gocql.github.io/[GoCQL] does not have a stable API, so we will
provide support for the most recent API, and older versions of the API
on a best-effort basis. Spans will be created for each query. When the
batch API is used, a span will be created for the batch, and a sub-span
is created for each query in the batch.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgocql, module/apmgocql>> for more information
about GoCQL instrumentation.

[float]
==== Redis (gomodule/redigo)

We support https://github.com/gomodule/redigo[Redigo],
https://github.com/gomodule/redigo/tree/v2.0.0[v2.0.0] and greater.
We provide helper functions for reporting Redis commands as spans.

See <<builtin-modules-apmredigo, module/apmredigo>> for more information
about Redigo instrumentation.

[float]
==== Redis (go-redis/redis)

We support https://github.com/go-redis/redis[go-redis],
https://github.com/go-redis/redis/tree/v6.15.3[v6.15.3].
We provide helper functions for reporting Redis commands as spans.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgoredis, module/apmgoredis>> for more information
about go-redis instrumentation.

[float]
==== Elasticsearch

We provide instrumentation for Elasticsearch clients. This is usable with
the https://github.com/elastic/go-elasticsearch[go-elasticsearch] and
https://github.com/olivere/elastic[olivere/elastic] clients, and should
also be usable with any other clients that provide a means of configuring
the underlying `net/http.RoundTripper`.

See <<builtin-modules-apmelasticsearch, module/apmelasticsearch>> for more
information about Elasticsearch client instrumentation.

[float]
==== MongoDB

We provide instrumentation for the official
https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver[MongoDB Go Driver],
https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver/releases/tag/v1.0.0[v1.0.0] and
greater. Spans will be created for each MongoDB command executed within a
context containing a transaction.

See <<builtin-modules-apmmongo, module/apmmongo>> for more information about
the MongoDB Go Driver instrumentation.

[float]
==== DynamoDB

We provide instrumentation for AWS DynamoDB. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-rpc]]
=== RPC Frameworks

[float]
==== gRPC

We support https://grpc.io/[gRPC]
https://github.com/grpc/grpc-go/releases/tag/v1.3.0[v1.3.0] and greater.
We provide unary and stream interceptors for both the client and server.
The server interceptor will create a transaction for each incoming request,
and the client interceptor will create a span for each outgoing request.

See <<builtin-modules-apmgrpc, module/apmgrpc>> for more information
about gRPC instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-services]]
=== Service Frameworks

[float]
==== Go kit

We support tracing https://gokit.io/[Go kit] clients and servers when
using the gRPC or HTTP transport, by way of <<builtin-modules-apmgrpc, module/apmgrpc>>
and <<builtin-modules-apmhttp, module/apmhttp>> respectively.

Code examples are available at https://godoc.org/go.elastic.co/apm/module/apmgokit
for getting started.

[float]
[[supported-tech-logging]]
=== Logging frameworks

[float]
==== Logrus

We support log correlation and exception tracking with
https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus/[Logrus],
https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus/releases/tag/v1.1.0[v1.1.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmlogrus, module/apmlogrus>> for more information
about Logrus integration.

[float]
==== Zap

We support log correlation and exception tracking with
https://github.com/uber-go/zap/[Zap],
https://github.com/uber-go/zap/releases/tag/v1.0.0[v1.0.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmzap, module/apmzap>> for more information
about Zap integration.

[float]
==== Zerolog

We support log correlation and exception tracking with
https://github.com/rs/zerolog/[Zerolog],
https://github.com/rs/zerolog/releases/tag/v1.12.0[v1.12.0] and greater.

See <<builtin-modules-apmzerolog, module/apmzerolog>> for more information
about Zerolog integration.

[float]
[[supported-tech-object-storage]]
=== Object Storage

[float]
==== Amazon S3
We provide instrumentation for AWS S3. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
==== Azure Storage
We provide instrumentation for Azure Storage. This is usable with
https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go[Azure SDK for Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmazure, module/apmazure>> for more information
about Azure SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
[[supported-tech-messaging-systems]]
=== Messaging Systems

[float]
==== Amazon SQS
We provide instrumentation for AWS SQS. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.

[float]
==== Amazon SNS
We provide instrumentation for AWS SNS. This is usable with
https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go[AWS SDK Go].

See <<builtin-modules-apmawssdkgo, module/apmawssdkgo>> for more information
about AWS SDK Go instrumentation.
